Why we need git? What makes git unique from other tools like SVN?
Let's say i have maven repo cloned on to my local, did some changes and i have build the code now target folder will be generated. So now when i do git operations like git add, git commit or any other git operations target folder should not be considered, how would you achieve the same? ans : use .gitignore
difference between git pull and git fetch?

By what method will you know in Git if a branch has just been combined into master?
The appropriate response is immediate.

To know whether a branch has been merged into master or not you can utilize the below commands:

git branch - merged It records the branches that have been merged into the present branch.

git branch - no merged It records the branches that have not been merged.
How to clone specific branch in git? Ans : git clone -b <baranch_name> --single-branch url after we list the branches using the git branch -a it will list that particular branch only

Lets say your organization has github and bitbucket to store code, you have cloned a repo onto your local and changed directory name. after some days one of your team members asks you to share clone link, how would you provide the same? Ans: git remote -v so that we can get a orgin of the repo
I have shell script to delete particular dependency ( repo is maven project ). before running the script i need to clone repo to my local, here point to note i should only clone master branch and only last commit ( last commit has all the code ) how would you do this? Ans: git clone -b --single-branch -depth 1 url
what is submodule and why we need submodule?
Lets say you have changed 5 files a,b,c,d and e in a repo and you did git add ., now all the files are in staging area, now i decided not to commit file d. how would delete it from staging area? Ans : git rm --cached

What is git-cherry-pick? why we use it? ans:herry picking is the act of picking a commit from a branch and applying it to another.
Let’s say you’re working on new feature in some branch, now your manager says stop working on that and change few other things on old code. Here after changing the old code, I need to work on new code, so I need to place my new changes some place How would handle this scenario? use git stash
What is a conflict in git?
command to list all branches in a repo? git branch -a

What is git reset ? Types of reset ?
How to delete local branch and remote branch in git ?
Difference between git diff and git status ?
what is git show?
The git show command is used to display detailed information about a specific commit in a Git repository. 
It shows the commit's metadata, including the commit message, author, date, and the changes introduced in the commit.
git show <commit>

What are hooks in git?

what is the importance .git directory?
what are the branches, diff between remote and local branches?
what Branching strategy that you are familier with?
What PR (Pull request) is? whats the importance of PR?

Which version of git you have used?
Difference between git merge and git rebase?
What is git squash?
Branching strategy used in your project?
Command to list all commits?

Branching strategy?
Need a script which identify inactive branches ( no commits since 2 months )?
How to set configs globally in git?
