Can we have multiple conatiners in a pod? Can we have similar conatiners in a pod?ans : no

Lets say i have 4 conatiners, one of them has failed how would you check which container has failed? kubecl describe pods

What is liveness and readiness probe? Why we need them? image

Have you worked on kubernetes monitoring? Which tools you have used?
How will you check master node when it is down?
What is pod disruption projects?
How to restart the pods?
In K8s , how can you achieve zero downtime ?
What are the steps or procedures to upgrade the kubernetes version? Have you involved in such upgrading kinda procedures?
How can you rectify logs in K8s?
How to troubleshoot if the pod is not scheduled?
Troubleshoot the pods and containers?

Can we deploy a pod on particular node?
How will you connect application pod with data base pod?
Is it possible to connect pods which are in different namespaces
what is init container and side-car container?can you give simple scenario where we use these conatiners?
which one is default deployment strategy? how it works?
command to check the container logs in pod?
what are the types of services present in kubernetes?
Kubernetes cluster maintenance?
If pod exceeds then what are the steps you take ?
What is the link between pod and service?

List objects you know in kubernetes?Give a brief about each object?
Command to list pods and deployments

Components in kubernetes architecture?
What are stateful sets in kuberentes?
Command to find which container has failed in pod and command to get logs of container
Tools to maintain kubernetes log files

What is Pod?
Creation of cluster for k8s, can we have multi master and multi nodes cluster?
On what basis the pod will be deployed on a specific node?
Can we deploy pod on master node?
What are steps that you might take to make one node into maintance?
In the kubeadm setup the control plane components are created as pods, where the defination those pods will be defined?


Why pods are not scheduled on master
Why config maps are used
What is the default deployment strategy
Have you faced any issues while working k8s
What is service account, role, role binding and namespace
Why we need helm

explain any 4 different types of pod statuses and also the reasons that why pod might go into that state?
what are operators and give one example where we can use operator?
what is the importance of kubeconfig file? Also lets say when you login to kuberenets by default it will pointed to default namespace, if i want list any objects which are other namespace need concate -n option for all the kubectl commands, is there a way we can set the namaspace to aviod -n option in all the commands?
given a object how do we find api version and kind with respect to cluster?
any work around to bring one pod out of rotation, when multiple replicas has been deployed?
How will you connect application pod with data base pod?

No, it is not possible to directly connect pods that are in different namespaces within a Kubernetes cluster. Kubernetes namespaces provide isolation and separation between resources, including pods. By default, pods in one namespace cannot communicate directly with pods in another namespace.
However, there are a few ways to enable communication between pods in different namespaces:

Cluster-wide network policy: You can create a network policy at the cluster level that allows communication between pods across namespaces. This approach requires a network plugin that supports network policies, such as Calico or Cilium. With a cluster-wide network policy, you can define rules to allow traffic between specific namespaces.

Service-based communication: If you want to expose a pod in one namespace to another namespace, you can create a Kubernetes Service of type ClusterIP or NodePort in the source namespace and then access it from the target namespace. Services provide a stable endpoint for accessing pods, regardless of the namespace they are in.

Ingress: If you have an Ingress controller set up in your cluster, you can configure rules to route traffic from one namespace to another. Ingress allows you to define rules for external access to services, and you can specify different namespaces as the target for incoming requests.
